---
layout: post
year: 2016
venue: thesis
title: Trace checking of quantitative properties
authors: Srđan Krstić
details: Politecnico di Milano, 2016

pdf: /assets/papers/thesis16.pdf
slides: 
doi: https://www.politesi.polimi.it/handle/10589/117563
bibtex: /assets/papers/thesis16.txt
---

Software engineering has dramatically changed over the past decade
and many of the changes have challenged our most basic assumptions about the nature of the software products that we develop. The
most important realization is that modern software has a very complex interaction with the environment in which it executes and it is often not safe
to assume that the behavior of the environment is stable. Designing software that anticipates changes in the environment makes the software itself
exhibit dynamic behavior that can only be observed at run time. This asks
for verification techniques that complement design-time approaches and
puts forward trace checking as a viable complementary choice for verifying
modern software. Trace checking is an automatic procedure for evaluating
a formal specification over a trace of recorded events produced by a system after execution. The output of the procedure states whether the system
behaves according to its specification.
The goal of this thesis is to develop general and efficient trace checking
procedures that support a broad class of quantitative properties. Quantitative properties can be seen as constraints on quantifiable values observed
in an execution of a system. Quantitative properties typically express nonfunctional requirements, like constraints on resource utilization (e.g., number of computation resources, power consumption, costs), constraints on
the runtime characteristics of the environment (e.g., arrival rates, response
time), or constraints on the runtime behavior of the system (e.g., timing
constraints, QoS, availability, fault tolerance).
The first part of the thesis discusses two algorithms that implement the
satisfiability procedure for SOLOIST — a specification language based on
metric temporal logic (MTL) used to express quantitative properties. We
show how a satisfiability procedure can be used to perform trace checking and apply the proposed approach to an extensive case study in the domain of cloud-based elastic systems. The second part of the thesis focuses
on the problem of distributed trace checking and provides algorithms that
rely on existing distributed computation frameworks (like MapReduce and
Spark) to efficiently check SOLOIST specifications over very large traces.
The thesis also contributes to the state of the art in MTL trace checking
by proposing a novel decomposition technique for MTL formulae. This
decomposition provides a scalable way of trace checking formulae with
large time intervals. Due to known restrictions of the standard point-based
MTL semantics we facilitate the decomposition by proposing an alternative semantics for MTL, called lazy semantics. The new semantics is more
powerful than point-based semantics and possesses certain properties that
allow us to decompose any MTL formula into an equivalent MTL formula
with smaller time intervals.