---
layout: post
year: 2016
venue: conference paper
title: Efficient Large-scale Trace Checking Using MapReduce
authors: Marcello M. Bersani, Domenico Bianculli, Carlo Ghezzi, Srđan Krstić, Pierluigi San Pietro
details: In the 38th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2016).

pdf: /assets/papers/icse16.pdf
slides: /assets/papers/icse16-slides.pdf
doi: https://doi.org/10.1145/2884781.2884832
bibtex: /assets/papers/icse16.txt
repo: https://bitbucket.org/krle/mtlmapreduce/
---

The problem of checking a logged event trace against a temporal logic specification arises in many practical cases. Unfortunately, known algorithms for an expressive logic like
MTL (Metric Temporal Logic) do not scale with respect to
two crucial dimensions: the length of the trace and the size
of the time interval for which logged events must be buffered
to check satisfaction of the specification. The former issue
can be addressed by distributed and parallel trace checking
algorithms that can take advantage of modern cloud computing and programming frameworks like MapReduce. Still,
the latter issue remains open with current state-of-the-art
approaches.
In this paper we address this memory scalability issue by
proposing a new semantics for MTL, called lazy semantics.
This semantics can evaluate temporal formulae and boolean
combinations of temporal-only formulae at any arbitrary
time instant. We prove that lazy semantics is more expressive than standard point-based semantics and that it can be
used as a basis for a correct parametric decomposition of any
MTL formula into an equivalent one with smaller, bounded
time intervals. We use lazy semantics to extend our previous
distributed trace checking algorithm for MTL. We evaluate
the proposed algorithm in terms of memory scalability and
time/memory tradeoffs.