---
layout: post
year: 2024
venue: conference paper
title: "Model-driven Privacy"
authors:  Srđan Krstić, Hoang Nguyen, David Basin
details:
pdf: /assets/papers/pets24-2.pdf
slides:
doi: 
bibtex: /assets/papers/pets24-2.txt
draft:
repo: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/model-driven-privacy-2100/README.md
---

Data protection regulations in many countries require IT systems to implement baseline privacy
requirements like purpose limitation and consent as mandated by the GDPR. Such requirements are
often specified in the system’s privacy policy and are challenging to implement as system developers
must address them consistently and in a cross-cutting manner. Moreover, without a formal connection 
between a system’s privacy policy and its implementation, the system’s correctness and
evolution are extremely difficult to attain.

We propose a model-driven development methodology that incorporates privacy policies into the
system design. Namely, we define a system’s privacy model, which has precise semantics and is used
to specify privacy policies. We provide semantic-preserving model transformations that generate
system implementations that enforce the given privacy policies by design. We implement two such
model transformations, targeting C# and Python system implementations. We evaluate our methodology
on three substantial case studies and show the enforcement of privacy policies related to purpose
limitation and consent. Our evaluation also demonstrates our approach’s generality, effectiveness,
and modest overhead.
